the deeper into the issue of paid
parental leave I go the clearer I see
the connection between persisting
barriers to women's full equality and
empowerment and the need to redefine and
in some cases D stigmatize men's roles
as caregivers in order to liberate women
we need to liberate men the assumption
and common practice that women and girls
look after the home and the family is a
stubborn and very real stereotype that
not only discriminates against women but
limits men's participation and
connection within the family and society
these limitations have broad ranging and
significant effects for them and for the
children we know this so why do we
continue to undervalue fathers and
overburdened mother's paid parental
leave is not about taking days off work
it's about creating the freedom to
define roles to choose how to invest
time and to establish new positive
cycles of behavior companies that have
offered paid parental leave for
employees have reported improved
employer relate retention reduced
absenteeism and training costs and
boosted productivity and morale far from
not being able to afford to have paid
parental leave it seems we can't afford
not to I am issuing a call to action for
countries companies and institutions
globally to step up and become champions
for paid parental leave I don't mean to
imply that you need to have children to
care about and benefit from this issue
whether or not you have or want kids you
will benefit by living in a more evolved
world with policies not based on gender
we all benefit from living in a more
compassionate time where our needs do
not make us weak they make us fully
human
[Music]